# IBM-Project-20914-1659766582
A Novel Method for Handwritten Digit Recognition System
ABSTRACT
Handwritten digit recognition is the ability of a computer system to recognize the handwritten inputs like digits, characters etc. from a wide variety of sources like emails, papers, images, letters etc. This has been a topic of research for decades. Some of the research areas include signature verification, bank check processing, postal address interpretation from envelopes etc.  With the humanization of machines, there has been a substantial amount of research and development work that has given a surge to deep learning and machine learning along with artificial intelligence. Handwriting recognition system is the most basic and an important step towards this huge and interesting area of Computer Vision.  With time, machines are getting more and more sophisticated, from calculating the basic sums to doing retina recognition they have made our lives more secure and manageable. In this project illustrates handwritten digit recognition with the help of MNIST datasets using Convolution Neural Network (CNN) models. Deep Learning has emerged as a central tool for self-perception problems like understanding images, voice from humans, robots exploring the world. The project aims to implement the concept of Convolution Neural Network which is one of the important architecture of deep learning. Understanding CNN and applying it to the handwritten recognition system, is the major target of the proposed system. The main objective of this project is to the accuracy of the models stated above along with their execution time to get the best possible model for digit recognition. 
